Query Database
--------------

This procedure describes how to run a SQL query against the Couchbase database either on the Laptops or the AWS
environments. You can use this procedure to gain access to the Couchbase Admin console to run the query through the
web interface and/or execute the query using the command line.

Acquire the Password
--------------------

To perform any action against the database you first need to acquire the Couchbase Administrator password for the
database you wish to access. Each Laptop environment generates a random password and the AWS environment's also have
their own passwords.

For the laptops the easiest way is to login to the Laptop Dusky application with the "Admin" user or some other user
who has been given the  "System Admin" role.

From the "Settings" page the database Administrator password can be seen by clicking on the "Show" button next to the
Couchbase Administrator Password field.

If you are not able to login to the application because of a problem with these accounts then the Laptop's password
can still be acquired in the following way. The passwords are stored in the "generated.properties" and/or potentially in the
"application.properties" for developer environments. Look for the property named "couchbase.admin.password".

The password can be in plain text

couchbase.bucket.password=PasswordHere
couchbase.admin.password=PasswordHere

Or, it can be encrypted (this following example is invalid garbage)

couchbase.bucket.password=encrypted(X1dXx2sdfjs;odjowwerwerzPhfAANAXMm9sgeW+4gQ=)
couchbase.admin.password=encrypted(VcL2txE9BJV4Dsf3AYiM2342sdfsdgsdgsgsdggzg4Q=)

Encrypted passwords must be decrypted using the Decryption tool and Decryption key.


Login to the Couchbase Admin Console
------------------------------------

Use a web browser and the URL; "http://localhost:8091" to access the Couchbase Admin console.

Login with the credentials "Administrator" and the Password acquired from the previous step above.

Navigate to the "Query" page from the side menu and execute the required query.



Execute the query from the Command line
---------------------------------------

Alternatively you can also execute the query using the command line. This may be more useful if the number of results
is particulary large, or the query contains more than one statement. Many of the Update/Delete/Drop scripts need to
execute more than one statement ad the Web console Query page can't do this.

1. Set PATH to contain Couchbase CLI tools if not done already

set PATH=%PATH%;C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin

2. Execute the query from the same machine as the database with the following command

cbq -f "Script.n1ql" -u Administrator -p PasswordHere

Notes:
 - It doesn't matter what the file name suffix is, sometimes it might be .sql, or n1ql, or .txt
 - If you need to target the machine on a different server there's a -e http://hostname:8091 option
 - If you need to output to a file:  -o file.json
 - If you need more help use -h



