
Replicate Production to Development

This is a procedure for how to replicate a Dusky Production Database into a Dusky Development environment. It works by
taking a fully synched Production Laptop (or other environment) and switches a few key settings so that the application
starts replicating with a new environment.

!!! THIS IS A DANGEROUS PROCEDURE - EXTREME CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN !!!
!!! THIS IS A DANGEROUS PROCEDURE - EXTREME CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN !!!
!!! THIS IS A DANGEROUS PROCEDURE - EXTREME CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN !!!
!!! THIS IS A DANGEROUS PROCEDURE - EXTREME CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN !!!
!!! THIS IS A DANGEROUS PROCEDURE - EXTREME CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN !!!

...it's ok going from Production to Development, the danger comes from accidentally doing in in the other direction.


Overview

1. Notify all Developers and Developer Testers that this is happening and to discard their databases [!!!IMPORTANT!!!]
2. Start with a fully synched Production laptop
3. Create an Empty Development database
4. Stop the Laptop Dusky service, and Laptop Synch Gateway
5. Switch various settings files
6. Start the Laptop Dusky service, and Laptop Synch Gateway
7. Wait for the Synch to happen


Details

1. Notify all Developers and Developer Testers that this is happening and to discard their databases. It wouldn't be the
same kind of disaster as replicating development data into production but you also don't want the old development data to
come back into the new copy of production data.

Don't forget to notify non developers who are using a Development environment (Testers, BA's, etc..) These people will
need to delete and recreate their local Development environments see step 3 below.

2. Start with a fully synched Production laptop. This should be a normal production install. The database needs to be
fully up to date. Once the Laptop is switched from one environment to another it won't receive updates from the old
environment anymore.

The AWS environment doesn't initiate connections to the Laptops, and even if it did or another Laptop was connected
manually the application contains a rule to check the environment name of the target server. Since
the environment name of this Laptop will be changed in the steps below this Laptop will no longer be a Production Laptop.

3. Create an Empty Development database. The current Dev database needs to be wiped so that it can receive the copy of
production data.

a. Stop the Dev Dusky application server
b. In the Development Couchbase server delete the 'kakapo-bird' bucket
c. Create a new 'kakapo-bird bucket' with the following settings. These are the standard settings at the time of writing
but over time the "standard" settings may change and these may drift out of alignment.
  - bucket name 'kakapo-bird'
  - memory 1024 MB
  - Replicas Enabled = false (unchecked)
  - defaults ok for everything esle
d. Start the Dev Dusky application server
e. Wait for the indexes to rebuild
f. Login to the Dusky application with the Admin credentials and ensure that the application is working and it only
contains the starting data (no Birds, and only a few Settings documents)

The Development environment is now ready to receive the data.

* Potentially it would be a good idea to wait at this point and make sure that nothing is still replicating with this
environment. The hard part is knowing how long to wait, not all Developers are necessarily running their environments
all of the time.


4. Stop the Laptop Dusky service, and Laptop Synch Gateway.

5. Switch various settings files. To switch the Laptop environment from one environment to another you need to replace
the following files on the Laptop with the files for the new target environment. You can grab these files from the
package distributables on the FTP server. In this case use the files from the "dusky-dev-laptop.zip"

- "Dusky\application.properties"
- "Dusky\service.config"

The development environment may have crept ahead of the production release number, so check that the version number in
application.properties matches the current version of the Development environment.

The SSL certificates and keys are only for the Laptop itself, these don't need to be changed because the Development
environment isn't expecting any particular Client SSL certificates.


6. Start the Laptop Dusky service, and Laptop Synch Gateway.

7. Wait for the Synch to happen. You should be able to see the data coming into the Dev environment relatively quickly
by using the application or looking at the Couchbase console. It's ok to do searches in the application but viewing
documents or editing them probably isn't always safe until all the data has been replicated.


